feat: add custom domain wallet addresses article (#151)
interledger/interledger.org-developers: src/content/blog/2025-09-05-memorable-wallet-addresses-custom-domain.md

---
title: "Memorable wallet addresses on your own domain"
description: "If you own a domain, you can set your Open Payments wallet address to be the same as your domain!"
date: 2025-09-05
slug: memorable-wallet-addresses-custom-domain
authors:
  - Sid Vishnoi
author_urls:
  - https://sidvishnoi.com?ref=ilf_engg_blog
tags:
  - Open Payments
  - Web Monetization
---

Wallet addresses are meant to be easy to remember or identify, unless your wallet provider chooses them for you. The address might include a long subdomain or even a random series of numbers and characters. But did you know that if you own a domain, you can set your wallet address to be the same as your domain?

So, instead of `https://ilp.wallet.example/12345432/usd`, you can have `$mywebsite.com` as your wallet address (well, technically, a [payment pointer](https://paymentpointers.org/))! It's as easy as pie to remember.

![Illustration showing turning long wallet addresses to custom domain payment pointers](/developers/img/blog/2025-09-05/memorable-wallet-addresses-on-own-domain.png)

> You can change your wallet without telling anyone about a new address. And not to forget the branding that comes with your domain - you can share it with people to request money with Open Payments, and it's handy when sending someone money as well. The [Web Monetization extension](https://github.com/interledger/web-monetization-extension) also supports these custom wallet addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change your wallet provider without telling anyone about a new address. And not to forget the branding that comes with your domain - you can share the address with people to request money with Open Payments, and it's handy when sending someone money as well. The [Web Monetization extension](https://github.com/interledger/web-monetization-extension) also supports custom wallet addresses.
```

Reviewer: Maybe this section can be reworked a bit. I'm not sure what branding has to do with requesting/sending money with Open Payments.

I'll share a few approaches in this article, and later explain how these custom addresses relate to Web Monetization. The essential part in each approach is: you want `https://{yourdomain.com}/.well-known/pay` to either redirect or rewrite to the wallet address you want to alias.

### Configure in web host

If your web hosting provider allows custom URL redirects or rewrites, you can use this approach. It's the easiest to maintain and set up, requiring no coding.

#### Cloudflare

For instance, let's consider Cloudflare. They have a concept of "rules" that execute specific actions when a request (or URL) satisfies certain conditions. For simplicity, we will utilize what they refer to as a "page rule".

1. Access your website in the Cloudflare dashboard.
2. Go to the Rules section in the sidebar and create a new Page rule.
3. In the URL field, enter `{yourdomain.com}/.well-known/pay*`.
4. In settings, select "Forwarding URL" with a 302 - Temporary Redirect.
5. In the Destination URL field, write the wallet address your wallet provider gave and type `$1` at the end.\

>    e.g., if your wallet address is `https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/zyz`, enter `https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/xyz$1`.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   E.g. if your wallet address is `https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/zyz`, enter `https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/xyz$1`.\
```

1. In the Rules section of Cloudflare dashboard, create a new Transform rule.
2. Use anything in the Rule name, say, "Enable CORS for wallet address"
3. Choose a custom filter expression for the incoming request:\
   Field: URI Path\
   Operator: wildcard\
   Value: `/.well-known/pay*`
4. Then, modify the response header:\
   Header name: `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`\
   Value: `*`
5. Save. Now, this will enable CORS for your wallet address on any website.

![Screenshot of Cloudflare dashboard with a transform rule to support CORS for our wallet address](/developers/img/blog/2025-09-05/cloudflare-transform-rule.png)

#### NGINX

With a server using NGINX, the configuration is straightforward:

```nginx
# nginx.conf
location ~ /.well-known/pay(.*) {
  add_header Access-Control-Allow-Origin *; # enable cors
  return 302 https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/xyz$1;  # do a 302 redirect to original wallet address
}
```

> You get the gist. Feel free to share solutions for your hosting providers in the comments!

Author: Maybe to community blog?

> You get the gist. Feel free to share solutions for your hosting providers in the comments!

Reviewer 2: Ya, if you link it, that could work. But it might also be a bit weird to point from one blog to another version of the same blog... I don't mind either way though. Just thoughts.

> You get the gist. Feel free to share solutions for your hosting providers in the comments!

Author: I updated the footer to following:
```md
I'm excited to see your wallet addresses on your own domains! It would be wonderful if you could share your solutions for different hosting providers and servers with our [community](https://community.interledger.org/), or even better, on your own blog. Looking forward to your contributions!
```

Also, to be clear, we'll redirect the existing post on community blog to this one.

### `_redirects` file

Some providers, especially those that host static websites, support a [`_redirects` file](https://docs.netlify.com/manage/routing/redirects/overview/) where you can create a mapping of URL redirects. There's also a companion [`_headers` file](https://docs.netlify.com/manage/routing/headers/) in some providers, which is particularly practical for enabling CORS support.

Static sites hosted on platforms like Netlify and Cloudflare can utilize this approach. It's important to ensure that the `_redirects` and `_headers` files are located in the top-level of your build directory. Depending on your static site generator, you may need to place these files in the "public" folder of your site's source code.

```ini
# _redirects
/.well-known/pay https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/xyz 302
/.well-known/pay/jwks.json https://ilp.wallet.com/abc/xyz/jwks.json 302
```

```ini
# _headers
/.well-known/pay*
  Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

> Other providers like [Surge](https://surge.sh/help/adding-redirects), [Vercel](https://vercel.com/docs/redirects) may have their own syntax for the redirects file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other providers like [Surge](https://surge.sh/help/adding-redirects) and [Vercel](https://vercel.com/docs/redirects) may have their own syntax for the redirects file.
```

      return Response.json(json);
    }
    // ... handle other requests, or by default, return error
    // return new Response('not found', { status: 404 })
  }
};
```

#### Wordpress

While you can write [some PHP code](https://learn.wordpress.org/tutorial/wordpress-rest-api-custom-routes-endpoints/) for this functionality, I would recommend using an existing plugin to manage redirects and rewrites. The [redirection](https://wordpress.org/plugins/redirection/) plugin can be a good option. Their docs should guide you well.

### Static website

If you only have a static website and are stuck with a hosting provider that doesn't allow customizations like mentioned above (e.g., GitHub Pages), you can still have a custom payment pointer, but there might be some limitations.

You cannot have `$mywebsite.com`, but `$mywebsite.com/pay.json` may work. It might be better or worse than what your wallet provider gave you.

In case you're wondering, no, the [`http-equiv` HTML meta tag](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5411567) based redirect won't work. The redirects have to be at HTTP-level.

1. Grab the JSON response for your original wallet address.\

>    You can use online services like [https://jsonviewer.stack.hu](https://jsonviewer.stack.hu), or [https://hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) to view the JSON response, or use `curl` if you're into those things.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can use online services like [https://jsonviewer.stack.hu](https://jsonviewer.stack.hu) or [https://hoppscotch.io](https://hoppscotch.io) to view the JSON response, or use `curl` if you're into those things.\
```

   Opening the wallet address URL directly in your browser may not show you the JSON response, as some wallets use it as a landing page for others to send you money.
2. Create a `pay.json` file (or use any other name, it just needs to have the `.json` extension), and paste in the above JSON. For example:

   ```shell
   # for example, with curl
   $ curl -sSL -H 'Accept: application/json' 'https://ilp.gatehub.net/981946513/eur' > pay.json

   $ cat pay.json
   # {"id":"https://ilp.gatehub.net/981946513/eur","publicName":"981946513","assetCode":"EUR","assetScale":2,"authServer":"https://rafiki.gatehub.net","resourceServer":"https://ilp.gatehub.net"}
   ```

3. Deploy your static site!

Note that, given the lack of control over headers, you may face CORS issues as explained above, but it'll work with most other Open Payment uses.

> More importantly, you will have to ensure the content of your `pay.json` matches the JSON response that was received from your original wallet address, in case it changes in future.

Reviewer: > in case it changes in the future

What is "it" here? The JSON response or the wallet address?

## How does it work with Web Monetization

### The `<link>` element

A payment pointer, such as `$mywebsite.com`, is convenient for many purposes. However, when you want to add your wallet address to your website as a Web Monetization receiver, you need to convert that payment pointer to the Open Payments "wallet address" format for use with the `<link>` tag ([why?](https://github.com/WICG/webmonetization/issues/19#issuecomment-705407129)). Slightly disappointing, but hey, you only need to do this once!

You can use the [link tag generator](https://webmonetization.org/tools/link-tag/) to convert the payment pointer to a valid link tag.

If you're using the same domain as your website, you can use the link element's URL resolution by writing the `<link>` tag like following:

```html
<link rel="monetization" href="/.well-known/pay" />
```

> Aside: During local development (i.e. with localhost or custom dev domain), if you have the Web Monetization browser extension installed and are using a CDN or host-level configuration, the extension won't resolve to your actual wallet address, and no real money will be sent during regular website development, which can be very handy. And when you want to actually test Web Monetization integrations, you can resolve the URL to a different [test wallet](https://wallet.interledger-test.dev/) address!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside: During local development (i.e. with localhost or custom dev domain), if you have the Web Monetization browser extension installed and are using a CDN or host-level configuration, the extension won't resolve to your actual wallet address. No real money will be sent during regular website development, which can be very handy. And when you want to actually test Web Monetization integrations, you can resolve the URL to a different [test wallet](https://wallet.interledger-test.dev/) address!
```

Reviewer: Makes a long sentence a little shorter

### Usage in extension

The Web Monetization browser extension allows you to use any payment pointer or wallet address to connect your wallet as a sender. This means using a custom, branded payment pointer works the same as using your wallet's address directly. So, feel free to use your branded payment pointer there as well!

Once you've connected using your custom payment pointer, the extension will show you both the custom payment pointer and the corresponding original wallet address on the Settings screen.

> Aside: The Web Monetization API doesn't allow the websites to know what payment pointer/wallet address was used by the payer, so they cannot directly correlate the payments to your identity (your domain name). The website's wallet may display information about the sender, but it'll only show the original wallet address there, not your custom alias.

Author: Is this better: https://github.com/interledger/interledger.org-developers/pull/151/commits/9516be61fd8d6e645b61821f5d3bd086a1ec40f6?

### `MonetizationEvent`

> Let's say, instead of using a wallet address that our provider gave us, we alias it to a custom address as shown above, and add it to our webpage. This sort of indirection can also arise from using the [probabilistic revenue sharing generator](https://webmonetization.org/tools/prob-revshare/), or from your wallet provider may be using an aliased wallet address itself.

Reviewer: > from your wallet provider may be using

Missing something here

Author: Made some changes in https://github.com/interledger/interledger.org-developers/pull/151/commits/cd62d323334b9bd4f1bcfe3aa9ae4c35b89ffde7 and https://github.com/interledger/interledger.org-developers/pull/151/commits/4ec07659df7c9ab274f4e88f2820c0866ea60d19. Let me know if it's better.

> When a `monetization` event is emitted, how do we know what wallet address was actually used? And how do we know what wallet address we originally provided? This is even more relevant if your webpage includes multiple monetization link tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a `monetization` event is emitted, how do we know what wallet address was actually paid? And how do we know what wallet address we originally provided? This is even more relevant if your webpage includes multiple monetization link tags.
```

And how do we get the original wallet address?

If you look closely, the `MonetizationEvent` inherits the `Event` interface. So, everything that belongs to `Event` is also part of `MonetizationEvent`. The part we're looking for here is the event's `target` attribute. This target corresponds to the `<link rel="monetization">` element where you added your wallet address. The link element has the `href` attribute, which corresponds to the original wallet address we provided on our page. We can get the original wallet address as follows:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="monetization" href="https://sidvishnoi.com/.well-known/pay" />
  </head>
</html>
```

```ts
window.addEventListener("monetization", (event) => {
  const linkElement: HTMLLinkElement = event.target;
  const originalWalletAddress = linkElement.href;
  // -> https://sidvishnoi.com/.well-known/pay

  const usedWalletAddress = event.paymentPointer;
  // -> https://ilp.gatehub.net/981946513/eur
});
```

Depending on the use case, you may care about either or both of the wallet addresses. I hope it was helpful for you to know how to get each.

## Closing words

> I look forward to seeing wallet addresses on your own domains! Remember, `$sidvishnoi.com` is my payment pointer 😉

Reviewer 2: I'd end off with your wallet address instead of your payment pointer. Small difference.
